The more you know about your product, the worse you become at explaining it. It's called the curse of knowledge, and it's the reason that a lot of people try to market and sell great products that end up becoming duds because it makes you forget what beginners don't know. Meaning, your expertise is actually blocking your ability to sell. So, what we're doing today is going through a series of books that will help you overcome that curse and position your products so that you can actually sell them. And one of these books has a single sentence framework inside it that I think is the simplest approach to marketing that anyone can take. But I must give a disclaimer on this video. Q Spider-Man meme. >> Remember, with great power comes great responsibility. The fundamental assumption in what I'm about to share with you is that you are using it ethically and that you have something genuinely valuable to share with other people. So please keep that in mind as we go through some of these topics. Now first let's knock out some of the fundamentals with the godfather of modern marketing. So first up on the list is a book called Breakthrough Advertising by Eugene Schwarz. So, it's a very easy read, but the principles inside of it are timeless. Now, I've done an entire video on this, which I will link if you want to see it. So, I'm not going to go into extreme depth on each of these. We're going to talk about what it is and why it's important. So, on the one level, we have problem awareness levels. And what this means is that any given person that you would want to sell your thing to has a different level of awareness about the problem you solve. And so this awareness can be represented on a spectrum from completely unaware, they don't even really recognize that they have the problem all the way down to they're super aware. So they know not only about the problem, they know all the different types of solutions, the different products within those categories of solutions, and they know of you, they know about the offers, they know about everything. So, an example of this might be if you're into AI coding, for example, or AI automation, you're probably super aware of all of the different models and what their offers are. You know that you can go use Claude Max or Cloud Ultra and get tons of API credits for the best coding model there is. And you know what that trade-off is between all the different models, so you're in that most aware stage. Or maybe you're not, and what I said was just gibberish, and you are up here somewhere. Point being, people relative to the problem they have that you solve, they are on a spectrum. And this is why it's important to do research about who it is that you are selling to. And so the second piece of this is market sophistication stages. So what this is basically saying is how exposed are they to all of the different claims from all of the different companies. So again, this moves through stages. And what these stages are are being able to just make a direct claim all the way down to having to introduce unique mechanisms, escalating those mechanisms, and then lastly ending with identification, meaning eventually the market just becomes about the identity of the person you're selling to and not what your product actually does. So, if you were to think of the world of AI just for a second, when it first started out and you had large language models, all they had to do was say, "Hey, you can chat with an AI, right? Full stop, end of sentence. That's all they had to say." And people flocked to a tool like chat GPT. But where we're at now, we're really in stage four where they're having to escalate new mechanisms all the time. I think Anthropic probably does this best. Think of all of the developments around the skills ecosystem, claude code, sub aents, their agent SDKs. They're just all over it with mechanism after mechanism. And then eventually what happens is that it becomes about the identity of the person. And we're already starting to see this with language model providers where you have people that are diehard anthropic fans and they won't even really consider releases from other companies. And then you have the same thing with people that are fanboys of chat chipt or gemini or grock or whatever tool it might be. And so the key principle here is that we need to solve for both at the same time. We need to talk to the prospect in a way that respects how aware they are of the problem in the first place. And then we need to consider, well, what claims have they heard? So what we're going to do is we're going to go take a look real quick at some companies that are actually on Product Hunt right now. We're just going to open up some of these and see what it is. So, I'm going to open up pick key, a secure password manager. So, this would be a good one to look at because there's a lot of password managers out there. So, market sophistication, fairly sophisticated. And then my level of awareness about this is I've used multiple password managers before and so I know a good amount about what the pricing should be, what type of features they have compared to each other. I'm like I'm probably at that level four of problem awareness about this thing. And so if we were to just scroll scroll through and look at some other ones. Post syncer. I think this one was getting a lot of traffic lately. So why not give Tibo a little love on the channel. So we're going to open up both of these and look at them real quick. So we have visual password manager. This doesn't really tell me anything. So far it is a visual password manager. Am I tired of remembering passwords? No, I'm not. Why? Because I already use a password manager. So, if this was trying to target somebody that is lower down in that awareness stage and they're actually like aware of different things. This doesn't do anything for me. I'm not tired of remembering passwords because I only have one password that I actually need to remember which is my master password. Okay, they have some unique mechanism at least which is you can log in with a photograph but that's not really clear to me. Okay, so on the market sophistication and problem awareness spectrum, I don't think they're doing a great job, at least if they were trying to market to someone like me. On the flip side, if we were to go look at Tibo's launch for Postyncer, create once, share everywhere. Post syncer helps you manage all your social accounts, schedule content, and create AI video and images in minutes. So, if we were to think about this for a second as a creator, so I'm probably in the ideal demographic for this, creating one core idea on one platform like YouTube where I do a lot of my long form stuff. It's actually surprisingly difficult to package that in a format that works for all of these different platforms. And so, this concept of create it once and share it everywhere is a really good headline for that level of problem awareness. I'm deeply aware of how annoying this problem is, but I honestly haven't gone out and looked at a bunch of tools like this. I tend to build solutions myself and so [snorts] this is speaking to me at the proper awareness stage. Now, as I scroll through this page, very nicely designed. The only thing that seems slightly missing is this seems very undifferentiated to me from other social media scheduling tools. Like I I don't know why this would be better than a tool like Buffer or Hootswuite or any of these other tools outside of maybe it has some of these other AI features in it, but again I think those are things that I would personally heighten. So we can actually see down here that they do have comparisons against all of these tools which would work for an SEO perspective. But for me as someone that's in this problem phase, I'm already curious because I've used some of these tools before. I've used Hype Fury. I've used Tweet Hunter. view social pilot. Why is this different? I would like to see that type of information hoisted. So, I'll say it right now. If you want to actually win with whatever it is you're building, whether it's an AI business, an automation agency, you're building software, whatever it is, ecom business, doesn't matter. You need to have these things nailed or else you're going to waste time and money. You're going to have low engagement on everything you do, and you're going to have really poor conversion rates on your landing pages. So, if you don't want to fizzle out on the launchpad, read that book. So, next up is probably the most documented and wellrespected book on persuasion. Now, it is a heavier read than the others on this list, but that's because there's a lot of evidencebacked studies and citations inside of it. So assuming we're talking to the right person at the right stage of problem awareness and sophistication based on the other book, how do we tap into fundamental decision-making biases that every person has? Because while we all want to pretend that we live in the driver's seat of our lives, we make most decisions based on emotions and subconscious biases and we justify those decisions rationally after the fact. So every successful SAS funnel, weight list, onboarding flow, pricing page, app UX fundamentals, whatever it is, they follow the seven principles from this book. And the best part of it is that it's actually all backed by a ton of evidence, not some random marketing guru nonsense. So let's get in and actually talk about each of these really quickly. So what are the seven principles he lays out in his book that drive human action the most? So the first up on the list is authority. People buy from people that they think are experts on the subject. The second one is social proof. People buy when they have confidence that other people have already made that decision. Third, commitment and consistency. People do not like to contradict themselves. Which means if you can get people to start committing to an action, they are going to want to remain consistent in the behavior they've already taken. And we're going to look at examples of all of these in a second. Next up is liking. People buy from people that they like or that they think are like them. Reciprocity. People buy from people that have already given them value. Scarcity. People buy things that they feel are in short supply. And the last one, which was actually added after the book was already published, is unity. And this is where people buy when they feel that that purchase makes them part of a group. Now, if you want a checklist of these things and some actionable items on how you can apply this inside of a landing page, for example, I'll have a link in the description with a prompt that you can run that helps find opportunities for integrating each of these things into whatever it is that you are building. So, check that out if you're interested. But, let's look at an example of an app that actually does this or integrates some of these principles very well. So this is one that I found on Mobin and it is called Orbit. So as we start looking through this onboarding flow, we can see that people move through from screen to screen. Then they start actually selecting different subscriptions that they might have like Netflix and Disney Plus and Spotify and all of these different things. And at the end of all that, it actually totals how much money they could be saving each year if they killed off some of these subscriptions. But then as they continue through, they get hit with a hard payw wall. Now, when we're on this hard payw wall, there are a few of these things that we just talked about that are immediately triggered. So, we have authority building with the Apple logo claiming this is an app store favorite. We have social proof showing that it's got 4.8 stars, and we have a review showing down here as well. We have a strong triggering of commitment and consistency because someone just spent time going through an onboarding flow. And now if they were to just exit the app at this point, that would be kind of painful psychologically to do, right? You feel compelled based on everything you just did to actually move through to the next step and sign up so that you can see just how much money it is that you are going to save, for example, on your app subscriptions. You could also view this 15576 as a form of reciprocity where we've already totaled up the savings for them. One thing that I would consider improving on this page is instead of saying orbit customers, how could you maybe speak to the actual identity of the person and try to ratchet up that sense of likeness? Hey, that person's just like me and unity that you are now a part of something. So, you absolutely need to think through each of these elements and how you can integrate them at each point of your marketing from your landing page to the actual UX inside of your app to your ads to every other piece of marketing that you have. Because if you don't, you're going to have a weak conversion rate, poor buyer trust, and most likely high churn. And ain't nobody got time for that. So, next up at number three on the list, we have a book called Yes. 50 scientifically proven ways to be persuasive. So the author of the last book, Robert Chelini, is one of the co-authors in this book because these are a giant grouping of very practical implementations of those principles. So if you like datadriven approaches to things, this is going to be a very good one to read. So there's a few important concepts that they introduce in this book. The first is that one of the most important things is just how you frame something. So, for example, if you wanted people to stop littering, telling them, "Hey, don't litter. There's a fine." is actually a lot less effective at getting them not to litter, than to say, "Most people don't litter here." So, number one is that framing beats force. The second piece is that social proof, which we talked about earlier, actually works a lot better when it is specific. So people tend to follow the behavior of other people more when they believe those people are similar to them. So instead of saying join thousands of customers, it would be a lot more effective to say join a group of founders just like you, right? because now the identity of the founder is going to be a lot more impactful than just saying thousands of customers. So wherever possible, try to be specific in your social proofs. So number three, taking that idea of commitment and consistency to the next level is that you should actually ask for commitment before you ask for action. So what this means is that a series of smaller yeses that are easy for somebody will eventually lead at a much higher rate to one big yes. So number four is pretty similar to number two, which is this idea that similarity is a shortcut. So anytime you can highlight a shared identity or any shared piece of information, it's going to increase compliance when asking someone to take an action. And last but not least, highlight the cost of inaction. So instead of telling someone that your app helps improve productivity, it's a lot more powerful to say that you'll stop losing 10 hours per week. So where these two things effectively do the same thing inside of like your app for example, they have a much different impact on people psychologically depending on how you framed it. And so these are just five of the principles. There's a ton of them in the book. Highly recommend you read it. Now, one simple example of this is Spotify's website for premium where they're triggering the reciprocity bias by giving you one month for free and they're also talking about the identity, right? It's for artists and it's for fans. But the reality is when it comes to your app UX and your landing pages, the odds are you probably update stuff kind of randomly and that means a lot of missed optimizations, backfiring strategies, and easy wins that just get left on the table. So these books so far have been about like the strategy of how to actually position on a high level. But the next two books cover off on this idea of what do I say though? So zooming out for a second, we are talking to people at the right awareness level. We're talking to them at the right sophistication level and we're using a bunch of these known kind of biases to how people make decisions. So now we need to start talking about like well then how do you actually communicate this? So the next book up is called Take Their Money by Kyle Milligan who is a direct response copywriter. And the main thesis behind the book is that people buy emotionally and they justify those decisions logically. And if you accept that to be true, well then it just becomes about well, how do you trigger that emotional brain in what you are writing and how you're positioning what you say. And so there's four core principles that you should then engineer everything you write about around. You need to think of things through the lens of being new, easy, safe, or big. So, let's unpack that and talk about what exactly that means. Human brains are engineered to look for novelty and to protect themselves. And so, these concepts of things being new, easy, safe, or big hit on all of those points. And you tend to see this a lot more over the top in cheesier marketing. So let's look at a few examples in the B2B space, which is probably one where you'd think stuff like this is less applicable. So I pulled three websites kind of at random from the Y Combinator startup directory. Let's take a look at them. ODO keeps your cafe shelves stocked so you can spend more time upfront. So let's start scrolling through this page and see what we can find. So this concept, we supply everything you need and we mean everything. That is both easy and it is big, right? They're supplying everything I need, which means I don't need to think about all of this different stuff. And to make the claim that you do everything is a big claim to make. No hidden fees, safety, next day delivery, easy. Our smart operations makes it easier to run and grow your cafe. Smart stocking insights. It feels like magic. 10 hours saved per week. 20% saved on cost of goods. These are all variations of something being new, safe, easy, and big because there's a lot of different phrasing and terminology that you can use to communicate those ideas. Another good example is this company called Pager Duty, which is a B2B incident management software for like DevOps. 74% less downtime is a big outcome. 400% gain in ROI, big outcome. 60x SLA improvement, very big outcome. 99% faster task completion, very big outcome. trusted by over 30,000 companies. It is safe. Can look at another example, GitLab. There's 50 million people already using it, right? Safe. Less time managing tools, more time delivering features. It's easy. So, point being, any successful website that you look at has manifestations of these things. So, again, if you want to actually convert people, make sure you're thinking through these concepts. How can you communicate new, easy, safe, big? So, the last book on the list is probably one of the easiest reads. It's called the ones sentence persuasion course by Blair Warren. So, like I said earlier in the video, it is the single simplest packaging of how to actually market an idea to a group of people. And this is what it says. People will do anything for people that encourage their dreams. justify their failures, allay their fears, confirm their suspicions, and help throw rocks at their enemies. One of the keys to really succeeding with AIdriven businesses today is to own and grow your own audience. If you were to break down any influencer that's very popular that you follow, I guarantee you if you were to think about their content, you can plug it all into each of those points. You can see where they're encouraging your dreams, where they're justifying why you failed and why it's not your fault. And I can guarantee you they're throwing giant rocks at somebody that you also don't like because it helps create that sense of likeness. This person is like me. They think like me. They're saying the things that I wish I could say, which creates that sense of unity and makes you want to follow and support that person. So that's it, guys. Five books that will change how you make money with AI products or really any type of product. So, if you want to see the video where I break down all of those pillars and principles from Eugene Schwarz in detail, I will link to that video right over here. But that is it for this video. I will see you in the next